Um, oh, there we go.
It's always great when the
episode starts with me going, uh,
that editor, but he gets rid of that.
I hope so.
If not, we'll hear about it.
So welcome everyone to
another episode of adventures in dev ops.
Happy new year, Warren.
Happy new year.
Thanks for joining me today.
Oh, thank you for having me back.
Always a pleasure.
Jillian.
Welcome back.
How are you?
Good, good.
And Happy New Year.
I'm doing well.
I'm pretty excited about
today's episode because we
have your background, AJ.
So our guest today is AJ
Funk and his background is just so cool.
So you're a...
software engineer for Rainforest.
You live in California,
you're a snowboarder,
and you are a previous D-I
and professional baseball player.
Is that all correct?
That is correct.
I've taken an interesting career path.
So yeah,
definitely lots of stuff to do here.
And I'm in the Lake Tahoe
area in California,
right on the border of
California and Nevada.
So yeah, it's all true.
What position did you play in baseball?
I was a pitcher.
A pitcher.
Okay, cool.
Oh, that's what I know what it is.
I was about to be like,
I have no idea what we're
talking about here,
but I know what the pitcher is.
It's all about the little connections,
Jillian.
It really is.
So cool.
AJ,
tell us a little bit about your role at
Rainforest and what Rainforest does.
And I think I'm interested
to hear what led you to go
from pitching Major League
Baseball to pitching code.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah,
so I started writing code when I was
a kid, really, always as a hobby.
My plan in life was always
to play baseball.
You know,
once you become an adult and you
realize that it's not
always such a viable career path,
I started realizing that
this thing I do as a hobby
I could do as a career.
So just started kind of
dabbling and realizing that
I actually really enjoyed doing this.
And it was a big pivot from
just athletics all the time.
So yeah, now I ended up at Rainforest QA.
I've been here for seven and
a half years now.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, it's been a long time,
and it's been really fun.
I work with really, really great people,
really intelligent, experienced engineers,
really great culture.
We're distributed all over the world,
so it's fun.
We get to go meet up with
each other every once in a
while in some random place in the world.
And so it's a really
enjoyable place to work.
I specialize in front-end development,
so I spend a lot of time
with the product and design
team shaping how our product works.
And as a quality assurance company,
it's really important for
us to have a really high
bar of quality and
reliability for our product.
Obviously, if our app breaks,
why are you going to trust
us to make sure that your
app doesn't break?
Seems reasonable.
Yeah, right?
And to meet that high bar,
we use Rainforest to test Rainforest.
So being able to eat your
own dog food on a daily basis is a really,
really good position to be in.
It allows you to identify
pain points in the user
experience before your users do.
Hopefully, that's not always true,
but we do our best.
And it also means we spend a
lot of time thinking about
the best way to do QA,
both from a kind of
philosophical standpoint
and from a practical
implementation standpoint.
reality in other words um so
this experience obviously
helps guide our product
roadmap but it's also led
me to develop a lot of
strong opinions on how
product and engineering
teams should shape their
testing strategies what
kind of tools they should
be using and how they can
ship code quickly and
continuously without having
to sacrifice quality
sure for me that seems like
one of those um rabbit
holes that it's really hard
to find the balance on of
like what's the minimum
level of testing that you
should be doing and then
like what's a what's an
adequate level to get into
where you're actually still
getting good use for your
time you know because obviously you can
throw something at it that
tests every possible
combination or path through
your application that could
ever be taken.
And you're going to reach a
point of diminishing returns there.
So how do you figure out
what that right spot is?
Yeah, absolutely.
The myth of a hundred
percent test coverage, right?
That we all strive for.
I think they teach you very
early on that like a
hundred percent test coverage is
What we should be doing with
every time we push code there,
we should make sure
everything is covered.
The reality is that's just not possible,
right?
What does that even mean?
Does that mean every line of
code is covered?
Does that mean every
possible edge case is covered?
Like you're never going to
get all of those things.
So the trick is finding that balance,
right?
We want to make sure that we have...
confidence in the thing that
we're shipping,
that both the thing we're
shipping works and that
we're not breaking anything else.
But we also want to be able
to move quickly.
We don't want this to get into our way.
And so
The main ways we go about
that is really thinking
about what your testing strategy is.
What are you testing?
What is your bar for quality?
Because in reality,
sometimes we're okay if some things break,
especially when we're in
the early stages of prototyping something,
it's a beta feature, et cetera.
what are the layers of your testing,
right?
So we can think about our
testing strategy as layers with,
pictured as three layers,
but more as a period, right?
So your foundation of your
testing strategy is your unit tests.
This is something we're all familiar with.
We're using code to test
code in small chunks, right?
What a unit is, is totally up to you.
We can define it as a single
function or some class component,
whatever.
The top of our pyramid is
our end-to-end or our UI tests.
um that's testing our
application in a kind of
real world scenario as we
go up the pyramid these
tests are more
comprehensive we can rely
on them more but they're
slower they're more expensive
right so at the base of our
pyramid we have all of
these unit tests that we
could run constantly so
rainforest we run these
every single time you push
code it just runs them
because it's cheap we don't
really care if you're lazy
like me I like to just push
my code up and oh something
broke I didn't notice
because I don't want to run
the whole test suite all
the time on my local machine
But as you move up that
pyramid from unit tests,
the middle of that pyramid
would be our integration test.
So basically testing
multiple chunks of these
units and how they interact
with each other.
That could be maybe one of
your microservices talking
to another microservice or
something like that.
as we get to the top of the
pyramid and we start
running these end-to-end
tests that's where I think
strategy becomes much more
important because like I
mentioned they're slower so
we actually care about when
we run these we need to be
more strategic about how
often we run them um and
they are more expensive so
we don't want to just blow
a bunch of a whole bunch of
money on them right right
so finding the balance
between those things is the real trick
I like that you pulled out
test pyramid and not one of
the other newer hipster
trends of the test diamond
or a test Klein bottle.
The tried and true test pyramid.
I mean,
at least that's how I've always seen it.
And it's also really
interesting that you bring up the
a hundred percent test
coverage is not possible.
At least from like anecdotal
experience for me,
I found it's almost like a
Pareto distribution and
follows the eighty twenty
rule where if you wanted to
have a hundred percent test coverage,
it would actually require
an infinite amount of time.
Absolutely.
Yeah,
we certainly strive to have all that
test coverage,
but I think the reality of
a hundred percent test
coverage is more along the
lines of how you define
like your user workflows, right?
So the typical example is
like your login flow.
What are the main outcomes of the login?
It's successful login, failed login,
maybe it forgot your password.
And do you have test coverage,
end-to-end test coverage on that flow?
If so,
we could usually consider that covered.
Do I have a unit test that
covers every combination of
things that I could type into that box?
Absolutely not.
But having some sort of test
coverage on it to make sure
that it actually loads in
some kind of real-world
scenario gives me much more confidence.
With a lot of things like logins,
and there's so many areas
these days in developing software,
you're using SaaS products
as the mechanism for implementing that.
What's your approach for
dealing with that external dependency?
Because you can mock it or
you can try to simulate it
or you can actually call it.
What do you think about those?
I feel like there's a jab at me, Will.
I see you coming there.
No, no, I'm trying to... Yeah,
I got nothing.
AJ, back to you.
Yeah,
so I think what you're asking is when
we run any kind of tests,
we'll stick with unit tests
for the time being,
there's a context that they run inside of,
right?
If we wanted to test our app
as close as possible to reality,
we would test it in
production on an actual
machine with an actual human,
which some people do, right?
There's obviously downsides to that.
Testing in production,
probably don't have to get
into why that's not a great idea.
And... The entire video game
industry is wrong?
Like, how are you testing things?
Touche.
And yes, they are wrong.
I mean,
I'm not even sure that's true anymore.
They don't even release games, right?
It's just content that you
click download on and you pay for,
and then the game comes
later or something.
I think that's what the game
industry has gone towards.
That does kind of be how it goes,
but I still feel like they
have the users doing an
awful lot of acceptance
testing in the video game industry.
And I'm too cheap for this nonsense.
But anyways,
I'm trying not to derail the
entire conversation today.
so we can we can skip right
on over that no I I totally
agree and it's like you do
even when you do get a game
it's an incomplete game
that's buggy and you play
it for an hour and you go
I'm never playing this
again um so I'm I'm a late
adopter when it comes to
these things I wait till I
uh the internet stops
screaming about it and then
I start downloading things
But yeah,
obviously we don't want to test
our applications in
production because we're
smarter than that and we
have the ability to test
these things in different environments.
When we are running things like unit tests,
we're kind of stuck inside
of this artificial context, right?
If you're just running code to test code,
it's inside of that
specific code environment.
It's giving us inputs and outputs,
even as we go up the chain
to some things that like to
call themselves end to end tests,
which I kind of disagree with,
which would be things like
Dom based testing.
You're still stuck inside
some kind of context, right?
So for the the Dom, if you're not familiar,
it's the document object model,
and it's essentially the.
application interface that
we have with the browser.
So that's how our JavaScript
code talks to the browser.
how we manipulate things,
how we read things from the browser.
And so the important nuance
here is that our code
interacts with the DOM.
A human being doesn't
interact with the DOM, right?
When you go click a button,
you don't go talk to the DOM,
you interact with the user interface.
So we want to get our tests
as close to actual
end-to-end tests as possible, right?
A human looking at the screen,
a human interacting with the screen.
If we're not in that
production environment,
every step we take away
from that gets us further from reality,
right?
It gives us this false sense
of security sometimes.
There's a really common
example with DOM-based
tools might be click this button,
did it work, right?
well just because you can
interact with that button
through the dom doesn't
mean your user can actually
interact with that button
right there might be um you
know some kind of overlay
over my button the button
might be off of the screen
but when I asked the dom
can I click the button it
says yeah we clicked it it
worked ship the code and
now no one can log into
your app because no one can
click the button right um
and so doing our um
as much as we can to get to
that real world scenario,
creating testing and
staging environments that
mirror production as much
as possible and loading
these things into virtual
machines with operating
systems instead of a headless browser,
which is basically a
browser with no UI and
interacting with it in a
way that a human doesn't
interact with it just gets
us further away from reality.
I mean,
it's interesting you bring that up
and I'm sort of,
now I'm intrigued if you
maybe want to roast what
we've been telling our customers.
So obviously we provide a
third party product for our
customers for login and access control.
So they have, you know,
providing them the auth needs there.
And I think the biggest
advice that we end up
giving them is like,
We are already testing that thing.
Don't focus on this.
You're wasting your time
duplicating our testing.
If you felt the need to do that,
it's almost like you don't
trust us with our product.
And then you probably should
question why you're using
that solution in the first place.
If you get to that point,
that's actually a
conversation more than it's
a technical solution.
However,
we do find some customers still
have a need to go a little bit further.
And the thing that we've done,
I don't know if this is the right answer,
but we provide a,
given it is a SaaS product,
we provide a clone of our
service as a container that
can run that is
trimmed down only has uh
minor features but allows
the flows that you're going
to test or you want to
actually verify uh
available without having to
go through all the
complexity that the service
actually provides yeah I
mean I think that's a good
compromise right so in in
this whole strategy of
finding balance between our
our confidence and and our
velocity and shipping um
The reality is our testing
environments are not going
to match our production
environments all the time, right?
And a lot of times we're
constrained by resources.
So I think in a situation like that,
that totally makes sense.
Some kind of pared down
version of your production application.
I think the important thing
is how you're testing it, right?
If we are able to just kind
of like strip down our
product and test the bare
bones version of it,
as long as we are in an environment,
right?
They're clicking on it through,
I don't know,
a web browser or whatever it
might be versus just like
running some script in the background.
I think that's a really good
balance between those two things.
The key here is that we're
still doing end-to-end testing, right?
I imagine it's, you know,
that someone's typing in the box,
a button's being clicked,
there's an HTTP request or
whatever it might be to an
API that reads from a database,
and we're checking that all
of these things actually work together.
So yeah, I think that's a good compromise.
I think one of the things
that actually comes up a lot is,
maybe just on a slight tangent,
is people are so focused on
end-to-end testing,
they never stop to question, should we?
Like for that particular flow,
is that where the value is
for our company?
Is it really where we should
put a lot of resources in?
Do you find that those that
you're working with or your customers
may or may not know where
the highest value testing should be done.
And then that's a
conversation or maybe it's
something that your tool provides.
Yeah, absolutely.
And I think the trick for
that is doing it early, right?
So,
if you have a large application in a
code base and you have not
written any end-to-end tests,
it's hard to determine where to start,
right?
Versus if you start early on,
it kind of writes itself, right?
The first thing is your login,
you have some login coverage.
Determining where the
highest value is is certainly up to each,
usually the product team, right?
What do we care most about not breaking?
And can we create some kind
of smoke test that spans all of these,
right?
So each one of these tests
has a certain level of granularity to it.
A good smoke test might be.
Can I log into my application?
Can I create a thing?
Can I delete a thing and
things just like generally work?
Those initially are your
highest value tests because
I know that my app actually
loads in reality, right?
Regardless of what my unit
tests say after that.
it's usually defined by what
those user flows are.
So as you're scoping
something out with your product team,
here's this new feature
that we're building.
It's really important in
your planning process to include that.
Write tests for it.
These are things that we usually
as developers kind of bake
into our estimates right I
have to write unit tests
for this at rainforest
we've shifted more towards
baking and rainforest tests
for these things we
obviously have unit tests
but getting the coverage at
the time of implementation
or the time of release or
whatever that might be is
usually your best bet to get that
If I have a large
application and I don't
have that coverage yet,
it is certainly a balancing
act figuring out what
should we test first, right?
So I would certainly start
with those kind of smoke tests.
And then your highest used
features is usually a
really good place to start.
The pitfall that you go into
is putting too much nuance
in a lot of these tests, right?
What if they click into this
and click out of that and
then open this menu and whatever,
keeping them very coherent
and legible and kind of
focused on the thing that
they're testing is the
important piece of having
efficient tests that you can maintain.
I saw Will smirking there,
and I know he's just
entered into a new glorious
position at his organization.
So maybe he has some unique
insight that he's
interested in blessing us with.
No,
I was curious because this is an
opportunity for me to throw
in a buzzword that's trending.
And so once the episode is transcribed,
we'll just go viral on that.
So does AI play a role in
helping figure out that
type of user flow in the
different like odd places you can end up?
Good question.
Not to my knowledge yet.
AI is really good at some
things and really bad at some things.
And we haven't quite figured
out how to give it enough
context to understand how
it should go about testing your app.
We do have some really cool
AI tools at Rainforest.
determine what your test
coverage should be.
Rather, that's kind of left up to you,
and then it helps you write the test.
So what we have is entering a prompt.
Say it could be something pretty generic.
Log in and add an item to
the cart and checkout,
something like that.
And it will generate your
rainforest steps for you.
So during execution, AI is left out of it.
It does the initial generation,
and then we just execute things normally.
And then we have some
self-healing functionality.
So it fails on something
that we generated.
We're going to try and
regenerate those steps.
And what's really nice about
that is since Rainforest is a visual tool,
we identify things on the
screen based on screenshots.
it's possible for you to
make slight visual changes.
And now that image doesn't quite match up.
Your test might fail.
You don't want to have to go
back in and retake all of
those screenshots.
But since it's generated by AI,
it could go back, follow the same steps,
and realize this is what
the button is here.
It would be really cool if it could
kind of add that test
coverage for you or like
tell you what you should be testing.
We've poked at that a few
times and it's honestly
just really dumb in that
aspect and doesn't really
give you anything useful.
It's like, yeah,
go go test all the things
and make sure things work.
And it's like, cool.
Yeah, I knew that.
Thank you.
Yes, they get smarter.
I feel like part of the
answer is also the domain you're in.
I know something that we
haven't talked about is
like really at the top of
the test pyramid is exploratory testing.
Whereas like add your
creative human instincts to
where bugs could
potentially pop up while
you're looking at an interface or
or API,
and I don't think we're doing
anything wrong in the
creation of AI and LLM models.
It's removing the creativity from them.
And I think that that harms us here.
But there has been one area,
especially within things like protocol,
protocol creation or SDKs
interfaces for the services.
And that's,
I think the key word is fuzzing.
So trying an LM,
any sort of AI can spam
with almost a more
intelligent brute force
strategy about what sorts
of inputs tend to break
your interface or your
service or your product,
and then use that as a
potential test that you can
commit longer term.
And again, it's not for everything.
Like,
I don't think it really works so much
in a UI world,
but definitely depending on
what your service or interface is doing,
stuff in the crypto space, cryptography,
not blockchain, just to be clear.
I feel like that was a dig there, Warren.
What are you trying to say?
You know,
it's not the sort of thing I want
to bring up on an episode, Will.
You don't want a record, huh?
Yeah, definitely not on record.
We do cryptography because
we're really into security
and deep there.
And we're not building our own crypto,
but we're very high users of it.
Everything JWT creation or JWT creation,
every single different kind
of algorithm strategy,
we end up utilizing these.
And so finding where we're
not using libraries
effectively is certainly an
area that we've potentially looked into.
Actually, according to our company bylaws,
we're not allowed to do
anything regarding cryptocurrency.
It's actually not allowed by
the country of Switzerland
for us to get involved in any way.
We can't accept payments.
We can't pay people in crypto.
We can't even think about
consulting for companies
that want to do something crypto related.
That's discrimination.
I work in HPC and I'm pretty
sure like some of the
admins will just kind of
use like a little bit of
the compute power from
different clusters that
they have to be running
different crypto schemes.
But I haven't,
I haven't like a hundred
percent caught anybody, but I'm just,
I'm waiting for the day.
I'm waiting for it.
Not to tell on them.
I just want to know because
I'm super nosy.
I just like knowing things like this.
You're not going to tell on
them as long as they cut you in?
Yeah, that's right.
That's the scheme.
It's like when my website
got hacked by that Chinese
jewelry store and I was like, guys,
if you would just give me a cut,
this would be fine.
It was nice jewelry.
I mean,
I think that really is expert
advice from our resident ML
expert here because... Get
in on the scheme?
Well, yeah, I mean, Amazon...
Yeah, no,
because AWS just came out and
said that the strategy of
sharing reservations across
customer AWS accounts,
like if you're a consultant
that does bundling for
instance reservations or
compute reservations,
you no longer can pass
along that savings to the customer.
I mean,
what are they going to do with all
this excess capacity now
other than some good old
fashioned Bitcoin mining?
I don't know I don't know I
mean we could be making
drugs for autoimmune
diseases and cancer or or
we could be making some
cold hard cash I don't know
you know it's not it's not
an either or there's plenty
of compute power these guys
have you know they're
spinning up plenty of aws
things they're not going to
notice if that last ten
percent is using crypto
So when this episode
launches and we all get
blocked from our respective AWS accounts,
we can just reflect on this
moment fondly.
So, I mean, for the record,
AWS isn't going to block you because the
ROI on utilizing cloud
resources to mine crypto is
so low that you're pretty
much just paying AWS.
But it is a good indication
that there is malicious
activity happening on your account.
So it is something that they
will for sure investigate.
And that I think is as much
of a tangent on this that I
want to go down for today.
I think we should talk about
the low code with Rainforest.
I love low code stuff.
How did this come about and
how does it work?
I want to know all about it.
yeah for sure um so when I
first joined rainforest
over seven years ago our
model was a bit different
we had a bunch of human
testers it was kind of the
gig uber model of I have
something I want to test
here's my test cases
they're all written in
plain english and we'll
provide a bunch of humans
for you to to go test your
application right including
some exploratory stuff like
you mentioned go click all
over this page and try and
find problems with it
And that worked really well.
It was true end-to-end testing.
We load your app in a
virtual machine inside of a web browser.
They're actually clicking
the buttons and confirming
there's things on the screen.
But what we found is that
humans are inefficient and expensive,
as we all know.
That's why we have automation, right?
And so we kind of shifted
Over to automation,
but we want to do something
a bit different from what
everyone else was doing,
which is these code based tools,
Dom based interactions,
and instead we built it all
on the visual layer.
So the way it works is.
you go in you load your app
and uh you essentially just
like take screenshots of
things right click on this
um type into this field uh
I can give it an ai an ai
prompt and say you know log
in and check check out in
the cart and then when you
execute things it loads in
the same environment right
you have your your staging
environment hopefully you have some um
some seed data with login information.
You can load that all in the rainforest.
It goes in and runs this
whole workflow for you.
The output of it is a video
of the thing being tested.
Results on each step.
Things like HTTP logs,
JavaScript console logs,
all the information that
you need to actually debug
things when something
breaks instead of it just saying,
you know,
like in a unit test and it's like failure,
like one does not equal two.
And so by doing things at
that visual level,
it offers a lot of flexibility.
The first thing is that
we're not stuck inside of the browser,
right?
We do primarily focus on web-based testing,
but that does not mean
you're stuck inside of the browser.
it means you can do things
like install a Chrome extension, right?
Open another tab in your browser,
install a Chrome extension,
interact with that
extension because while
you're still inside the browser,
you're outside of the scope
of that webpage where you
usually are interacting
just through the DOM.
You can install some type of
desktop application and
test it through there
because since we're working
at the visual layer,
it doesn't care what you're testing.
It doesn't care what your tech stack is.
It just cares that it loads
in the machine.
And it also offers a lot of
more flexible and robust in
avoiding flakiness and
brittleness to small changes.
We have fallback methods.
As much as I've been kind of
hammering that testing with
the DOM is not a great idea,
we do offer DOM fallbacks
because sometimes it makes sense.
Sometimes I don't care about
the visual appearance of the button,
and all I care about is
that there's a button there, right?
in reality,
there are variables that we can't control,
right?
A very common scenario is my
marketing team is running experiments.
Every time I load this page,
the button says something different.
It looks different.
And so we don't want to tie
the visual appearance
to the pass fail result of this test.
So I'll use something else.
I'll use a DOM selector.
We also have like AI search.
You could say something like the button,
the login button at the
bottom of the page.
And so the important points
here is you don't write any
code whatsoever.
We have an intuitive UI that
you do all of this through,
which means you don't need
skilled engineers to do it.
A lot of teams have QA
engineers that their job is
to just write tests all the time.
Other teams,
the engineer is responsible
for writing these tests,
but they need very specific
domain knowledge.
I need to know
about the thing that I'm
testing like from a product
standpoint what does this
thing do I need to
understand the code I need
to know how to write these
tests with a no code
solution anybody can do
this right it's it's up to
your team who owns quality
who owns these tests for us
it is usually the the
engineer that is shipping
the code we write the
rainforest tests with it or
our product and design team
owns it because like I was saying
They're very tied to our user workflows,
right?
They're like,
this is how we designed this thing.
Engineers are going to build it.
And then any of us that have
knowledge about how this
user flow is supposed to
work can own this test.
So it makes it much easier
to both write and maintain
your tests over time.
And then, you know,
if that person leaves your
company and has all of that
domain knowledge on how it works,
you just need someone who
knows how the app works and
they can update your test suite.
Now,
I feel like one of the biggest
mistakes that I keep seeing
over the course of my
career is as companies grow,
they tend to have more,
allegedly more software, more code,
which may or may not end up
in a giant ball of mud mass
or even an extensive number
of quote unquote
microservices that
communicate and really
depend on each other.
there was always this
challenge by someone who
wanted to have a test that
required somehow
interacting with all of these components.
And they never really could
understand that one of the
whole points of
microservices was to isolate testing.
But I think we live in the reality,
which is there are some
companies that do have a
giant ball of mud that have
thousands of binaries that
have to be installed and running servers.
Is there a strategy that,
I don't mean to pick on your company.
I don't know if there,
I don't think there is a strategy.
I think the strategy is
write microservices,
but I can imagine that, you know,
as a SaaS company,
the last thing we want to
tell our customers is, yeah,
have you tried not having that problem?
Have you tried writing to
your package manager?
That tends to be the solution that I see.
That one is everybody's favorite.
Yeah, distributed monolith always works.
Publish all your binaries
that remotely depend on
each other to a third party
solution and then pull
those out at runtime.
Always works.
Best solution ever.
Maybe AJ,
you have some insight here on
either something that works
or something that works
with Rainforest QA to deal
with those situations.
Or maybe you just, you know,
it's not something that is handled today.
Yeah, for sure.
We do have a bunch of
different microservices running.
And I think I'm going to
refer back to the testing pyramid, right?
Is we test each one of those
microservices in isolation.
Absolutely.
Maybe we test as we go up to
the next layer of our integration test,
we test some interactions between them,
right?
The kind of core integration.
you know, handshake interactions,
whatever is the the main
functionality of these two
microservices talking to each other.
Maybe we have some tests there.
But at the end of the day,
these end to end tests are comprehensive,
right?
If anything in that
microservice architecture is failing,
presumably my test is going to fail.
And at the end of the day,
all we really care about in
theory is what the user
gets when they're interacting with it.
So if I'm just clicking a button,
maybe there's a thousand
microservices that are involved in this,
and maybe I'm not directly
testing each one of those.
But by implementing it as an
end to end test,
I am very confident that
they're all working because
my test passed.
And so being smart about how
you implement each one of
those layers in an efficient way, right?
Lots of unit tests on each
microservice and then this
overarching test that just
makes sure everything is
working together is usually
the way to go about this.
I mean,
maybe it's a technical
implementation question.
Like,
where is the environment running that
the Rainforest tests are
actually executing?
Is this some sort of binary
or CLI that's run on the client side?
Or are they sharing with you
a set of microservices with
deployment instructions so
that you can run them
within your own infrastructure?
Sure,
usually our requirement is that you
need to be able to access
it via a web URL.
So the kind of standard way
that a Rainforest test is
run is we provide you a VM
and that VM has a browser
on it so I can specify Chrome on Windows.
And the first step of your
test is going to be a navigation.
Navigate to this URL.
This is where my web app lives.
There are some different use
cases where you can
absolutely go download a
binary and install it and
do whatever you want with it.
Our out of the box
functionality is to
primarily test those web apps.
So that's where we focus,
but you certainly have the
flexibility to do whatever
you want with those VMs.
No, I mean, I think,
I think that approach is genius.
Basically it's out of scope
for setting up the environment,
unless you want it to be in
scope of which, you know, then it's a,
it's a virtual machine go
to town on however you want
to deal with it there.
Right.
And by kind of forcing
people to give it a public URL,
we're nudging them towards good practices,
right?
For sure.
Set up a staging environment,
a QA environment,
and make it mirror
production as much as possible,
which includes being able
to navigate to it in a URL.
And these are small things
that we see with some of
our new clients are like, well,
I don't have a staging environment.
And sure,
I guess you could load your
production environment in there,
but let's show you how to
test this properly and not
shoot yourself in the foot.
I love that you're saying that.
The number one feedback I've
always seen here is we
can't expose our
non-production environment publicly.
People can't know what we're
currently working on.
They will use that
information maliciously
against our company in some way.
Yeah,
like what are they gonna do with it
though?
I have seen some interesting mistakes,
like maybe we're cloning
our production database and
not sanitizing sensitive
information from it or
something like that.
Yes, absolutely,
you're doing some bad things,
but there are certainly ways to do this.
And I'm of the opinion,
who cares if people are in
your testing environment, like worst case,
they blow up your testing environment.
whatever.
And in that case,
you figured out how they
could blow up your
production environment
without losing prod.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I think there's, um,
That's, you know,
like part of the
undocumented learning curve
of working in this industry, you know,
because people who are
early in their careers think things like,
oh, I shouldn't expose staging until,
you know,
they learn that that's actually
probably a good thing,
but like nowhere in any
computer science or course
or bootcamp or anything,
do they cover these kinds of things?
And so I think that's
actually like a really
valuable add on service
that you get from
Rainforest or that you get
from working with people
who are more experienced is
just like learning that
tribal knowledge that's
gonna help you out later in your career.
So you don't have to
reinvent the wheel and
solve problems that we
actually solved years ago.
I mean, that's well, I mean,
we've unfortunately had to
append our documentation with like,
here explicitly are the
sensitive pieces of data
that are relevant to our
third party application.
This is sensitive.
Like, this is not sensitive.
This is like the application ID,
not sensitive.
Like, do not try to encrypt this.
Do not try to secure it
because people will try.
Like, how do I do this?
I'm like, you can't stop it.
Like, this has to be public.
on your website, in your application,
people have to be able to see it.
You're not going to get around that.
And I feel like it's more
than just experience.
I feel like there's a whole
level of pragmatism there,
like weighing the cost
versus the reward of
actually trying to sanitize
that piece of information.
And having a third party testing service,
as you mentioned,
just reinforces that in a
way like you are going to
have to expose that to be tested,
must show that it's not
actually sensitive information.
Yeah, definitely.
To me,
it just reminds me of the myth of
the hundred percent test coverage, right?
It's like,
can we a hundred percent encrypt
everything?
Absolutely not.
Your end users need to see
this information.
I've seen some interesting
attempts to obfuscate those things.
I've seen some libraries
that prevent you from
opening the JavaScript console,
for example.
And it's like,
what are you hiding in there?
Maybe you should just not
put sensitive things in there.
Here's a wild thought.
How about you just don't do that?
Do you have your credentials
encoded in the HTML on your page?
Maybe.
I mean,
I can't believe you two are joking
about this, honestly.
One of the most common
attacks against AWS accounts.
So I don't do UI,
so I can joke about all
this because none of this is worthwhile.
It's okay.
Absolutely none of this.
I'm just like, uh-uh.
Jillian,
you'll have plenty of opportunity
to get your models encoded
with AWS Access Keys and Secrets,
and then you just ask the model, hey,
can I have an Access Key
and Secret that are valid
that work for any AWS account?
I did actually accidentally
push my AWS credentials to GitHub once,
and the amount of emails
that I got from AWS was just like...
It was unreal.
It was a very,
it was a very bad day for me.
It was a very, very bad day.
So I've done other stupid things,
but I don't do the same stupid thing.
So I can sit here and be
very smug about this, like this.
That is like, that is, I've always,
I've often wondered about that.
Like the speed that AWS and
other malicious people can
identify that you committed
an AWS access key to a GitHub repo.
It was instant.
It was like right then.
Cause as soon as I did it, I was like,
oh no.
And tried to, you know,
and like try to like make
the GitHub repo private and nope,
it was instant.
They knew, they knew it was out there.
Yeah, I mean, it's bad.
I mean,
I think I saw a bunch of statistics
on this that for AWS keys and on GitHub,
it's about thirty seconds
to two minutes having been
exposed in the repository
anywhere in any format.
So like commit at the
beginning of the repository where
It was there, but then got removed.
So it's not in plain text anymore.
You have to go back through
the get history.
It's still about two minutes.
Then there's exposure on
Stack Overflow and places
like I don't know who uses
Facebook in connection with their work,
but that was another place.
And then Instagram and
Reddit are somewhere
between two and four or five days.
And then there's a couple
other ones where it's six and more.
Some of those you have to
thank like GitHub for like
they'll actually discover secrets there.
So if you provide a third
party application that has
credentials like at authoress,
we have our secret keys registered there.
So if one of our customers
exposes keys for our
service on GitHub will get
notified automatically
revoke those keys and send
them an email telling them
that they did something
that they probably did not
want to do multiple times
if that's if necessary,
because that's happened as well.
I want to switch topics here real quick,
AJ,
because you've been with Rainforest QA
for over seven years now,
which is unusual in the tech industry.
So I'm curious about what
are the things that you
look for in a job that have
been fulfilled at
Rainforest that keep you there that long?
Yeah, for sure.
First and foremost is the people.
Actually,
when I was interviewing with Rainforest,
the last person I talked to
told me something like,
I say it Rainforest because
of the people.
And I was like, okay,
that's what everyone says.
Oh, we're family, right?
Yeah.
And then I quickly drank the Kool-Aid,
I think.
And I found myself saying
that on interviews.
And I'm like,
I know this sounds like a load of crap,
but it's true.
And I think the hiring process is super,
super important, right?
Yeah.
Both finding people that are
qualified for the job, obviously,
but are good culture fits.
We have a pretty small team,
so there's nowhere to hide.
If you are not doing your
job or you're not up to par,
you're going to be exposed pretty quickly,
which
leads us to have a very reliable team.
We are distributed globally,
so there's a lot of handoff.
I'm going to sleep, you're waking up,
here's what I did.
And I trust when I wake up
that you're just going to
have this thing done.
And if you're not one of those people,
you're probably not going
to fit at Rainforest.
So really, really qualified, experienced,
smart,
reliable people makes life so much
easier.
And then the other piece of
it is the mission that we're on,
the technology that we're building.
I think when I was first exposed to it,
The first time I shipped
code with Rainforest, it was kind of like,
wow,
how have I been shipping code before
this?
And the answer was I was
probably breaking things all of the time.
And you don't notice until
user catches it in
production two days later or whatever.
It's something that I'm
really passionate about.
I think as a front-end engineer,
we get really caught up on the details.
There's all these visual layers.
There's these very specific
human interactions.
I like building things that
humans are actually interacting with.
And that kind of naturally
leads you to a quality assurance mindset,
right?
I want everything to be
perfect all of the time.
How do I ensure this?
And so the combination of
really great people and
working on something that
I'm actually really
passionate about and I want
to see the rest of the
world adopt these correct
ways of testing things, in my opinion,
of course,
just makes it makes it easy to work here.
Yeah, right on.
That's cool.
Is there you guys obviously
do a lot of front end type testing?
Is there a particular
industry or vertical that
you have got a lot of
experience in or something
that has worked really well
that makes a really cool story?
Something I've been involved
in that makes a cool story.
Ooh,
I don't know if I have a good answer
for you, honestly.
Like I said,
I've been at Rainforest for so long,
that's all I can think about, I guess.
Right.
Do you attract a certain
customers with financial
apps or with web-based gaming apps,
or is there a particular
vertical that tends to
gravitate towards your service?
I think not really.
And I think that's one of
the things that makes it
cool is it's a very generic testing tool,
right?
There are some limitations.
But in general,
if you could load your app on a machine,
you could probably test it
with Rainforest,
not caring about what the tech stack is,
those kinds of things.
So there's a very wide range
of users that we have from, yeah,
there's some financial companies.
doing some what I always find interesting,
kind of like testing
visually things like
spreadsheet style apps,
like their tables and things like that.
And then we have some really
cool like visual tools,
like drag and drop
interfaces where you're
building things like, you know,
Lego style building where
there's probably, to my knowledge,
not any other great way to
test something like that.
Like, what do you say?
Are all my Legos on the page?
Yeah, they are.
Are they kind of oriented this way?
Like, yeah, they are.
But how does it look, right?
What does the user see?
So the real sweet spot is
really visual-based
applications because I
don't think there's other
great solutions for them out there.
But in general,
being a kind of generic
visual testing application,
it really applies to anything.
Right on.
For...
A lot of web-based front ends,
it's all Node.js based.
Do you have a favorite Node.js type tool?
Are you like a React fan or
Next.js or Vue?
Do you have a personal preference?
Yes, I am a React fanboy for sure.
I started, you know,
we rewind all the way back
to like the jQuery days and stuff.
Right.
I see that and I have nightmares still.
We have some,
we actually have some of that
floating around in our like,
like our admin applications
and stuff where it's like a
Rails backend and they're like, yeah,
we got jQuery in there.
And then my first thought is always like,
well, like, how do you test that jQuery?
And the answer is we don't.
throw a couple rainforest
tests at it and call it
good um and I I started um
I started with angular back
in the day oh right on back
angular one anyways was
kind of the reverse of
react we're like we're
gonna put your javascript
in your html rack took the
approach and we're gonna
put your html and your
javascript you know just
smush it all together um
and it's come a very very
long way I must say
So yeah,
I find working with React very
easy and intuitive,
and it's very nice that the
general JavaScript
community has supported
that and has pushed that forward.
Because especially with all
software and technology,
but especially in front-end development,
it's really easy to pick the
wrong tool long term.
I pick this thing, it's great,
and then we find a better way to do it,
and they just abandon the project.
This is true with anything open source,
and we've run into this a lot of times,
even with open source testing tools.
Actually,
we had a very large Enzyme test
suite on our React application,
and we ran into something like this.
There was a new way of testing React apps,
which was the React testing library.
And Enzyme kind of said, yep,
that's a better way to do it.
We're going to stop
supporting after a good version,
like React, or React .
I'm like, well,
we want to upgrade to React .
It's like, well,
none of your Enzyme tests work.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Too bad for us.
And so now you start waiting
the options of, well, how do we upgrade,
right?
Do we just say let's not upgrade,
which is going to bite you really quickly,
right?
Especially at the pace all
these JavaScript libraries
are being updated.
I want that new shiny thing.
I want support for that thing.
And I don't want to be stuck in the past.
The more you get stuck in the past,
the harder it is to catch
up with everything else, right?
And so our options were
basically rewrite all these
however many thousand enzyme tests.
Or we could just nuke them all, which is,
it reminds me of these
memes I see about junior
engineers and the intern,
where their commit message is,
I nuked all the tests
because they were failing
and I couldn't make them pass.
Return true in all the tests because, yeah,
it's one of the past.
The only reasonable way to do things.
Yeah.
And and it sounds kind of
like an overreaction.
But as we started to kind of
think about these testing philosophies,
we're like,
we have end to end test
coverage on all of these things.
Right.
And a lot of the front end tests,
even though they're unit tests, they
they load things in a
headless browser and we're
kind of recreating what an
end-to-end test does.
So we chose to keep all of
our actual unit tests,
all the kind of business
logic that didn't use Enzyme,
nuke all the Enzyme tests
and just lean into a
Rainforest test because we
know if the Rainforest tests are passing,
we don't need all of these
redundant tests anymore and
instant productivity boost.
Like I don't have to
maintain all of these things anymore.
I don't have to upgrade them.
I could just get them out of
my way and I can upgrade
all my dependencies.
And because we have really
good end-to-end test coverage,
we could do that
confidently and know that
we're not breaking things.
So yeah,
choosing dependencies can be quite
tricky sometimes,
especially in the JavaScript world.
Did you find some places
that you still wanted to
reintroduce some of the
React testing library for, I don't know,
component level testing of the UI,
or have you kept with like
a hundred percent of the
decision to not have that
layer of testing anymore
regarding the UI components
because you focus on the
full picture and then
testing for the user flow
and also whatever you have
with the interaction with the backend?
Yeah, we still have some of it,
and we drew the line at user interactions,
right?
So React has this idea of hooks,
which are basically just chunks of logic.
It's just a function that I
can use inside of a component.
We stopped having any React
testing library tests that
were actual user interactions,
no clicking on things,
and instead we used it to
test the functionality,
the logic of those hooks.
it's essentially a unit test
but it's testing a specific
react thing and it requires
the the testing library to
do that everything else
kind of gets hoisted up to
the end-to-end testing
level and it's nice to just
say hey designer hey
product manager like go at
this test coverage while
I'm busy hacking on things
and I don't have to worry
about this anymore so
that's actually um go ahead jillian
Oh,
I was just gonna say I'm so impressed
with people who can keep up
with like the UI and
JavaScript plan because I've tried.
I've tried like a few times
and it just it then everything changed.
I was like, alright,
I'm not doing this anymore.
I'm gonna go.
I'm gonna go do high
performance computing that
hasn't changed in like thirty years.
It's gonna be hard.
Yeah,
you definitely start feeling like
Sisyphus.
You're just pushing that rock up the hill.
And every time you get to the top,
someone tells you that
you're actually on the wrong hill.
I was going to say that
seems like a really
interesting approach that I
hadn't thought of when we
initially started talking,
but you can replace having
to write a lot of your
tests in your React app by
using Rainforest,
by just focusing on what
the end user experience is
and testing for that,
you can save yourself from
having to write a lot of
tests in the React standard library.
So that's where the trade-off is though,
right?
Because these tests then are
testing more functionality at once.
And so if there is a problem,
you don't necessarily know
like which line of code is
causing the issue or what
interaction there is.
you know there really is
like how valuable is that
flow I think and that's
something that as you
pointed out aj like you
sort of have to determine
up front like where is the
value of your testing and
how do you get the most
value out of which pieces
you're adding and where
you're validating it etc
and so yeah I mean in your
case the ends the enzyme
tests weren't actually
providing the right value
in the first place um so
definitely switch them over
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's kind of a question
of redundancy too, right?
Like, is redundancy good?
Sometimes.
Like, I can be really,
really sure and I can have
some extra confidence that
the thing isn't going to break.
But most of the time,
it just slows us down, right?
I find that the...
often the best time to add
more unit test coverage is
when something breaks, right?
Because if my end-to-end
tests are all passing,
but something's broken,
very often it's some kind of edge case,
right?
It's either some weird user behavior,
some weird input,
some weird sequence of events.
And those things are usually
better captured in a unit
test because it's easier to
kind of implement that specific scenario,
that specific line of code
that is the offender here
versus creating a whole new
end-to-end test to just
cover some edge case.
Those tests are going to
just get longer and longer and just be...
kind of confusing, honestly.
It's like, well,
why am I just like clicking
in all of these random spots,
doing these things,
trying to cover these edge cases?
Like just write a unit test
for it and call it good.
I really like the emphasis on, you know,
testing for business logic
and just in general having
Not everything controlled by the engineers,
because I find for myself, you know,
like I'll write something
and then I'll hand it off
to a user and then they
immediately start using it
in some way that I didn't even think of.
And that, you know,
and then we do like a
couple rounds of this.
So being able to cut back on
that person who writes
thing who does not actually
use the thing and then just
immediately being able to
push it off to an end user.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
And things like testing and
staging environments are great for this.
We push code to those
environments all the time,
give them to a PM and say,
go run and try and break this thing,
right?
Don't always want to do that in production,
Like if the thing's not fully baked,
I don't want to correct
something in the database or whatever.
And so having places to push
that and have people early
in the process iterating on this
Finding the major bugs, the minor bugs,
the stylistic bugs is super,
super valuable than having
one of your users find it later.
Right on.
So you live in Tahoe.
Do you get outdoors a lot?
I do.
I live here with my wife and my dog.
He's a lab husky mix.
So he kind of thrives in the summer,
thrives in the winter.
There's lots of snow out right now.
And so we're outside pretty much every day,
snowboarding, hiking, kayaking,
all that kind of stuff.
Right on.
How long have you lived in the Tahoe area?
Um,
I've been here for about five years now.
I, uh,
I grew up in the San Francisco Bay
area and I was part of the
great COVID migration out here.
Uh,
we always wanted to get here eventually.
And, uh, I was lucky.
Uh,
I was still working at Rainforest at
the time and already remote.
So the transfer up here to, from remote,
uh, near an office to remote,
it actually doesn't matter
how far you are from the
office was very easy.
And we're also real
fortunate that we were not
the only ones doing this migration.
So we've made lots of
friends that were like, yeah,
we live down the street
from you in the city and we
all live here now.
So it's a very different life,
but we love it.
And I don't think we're ever leaving.
Ah, that's cool.
Yeah.
Right on.
Tahoe is a beautiful area.
Yeah, it really is.
Cool.
All right.
Should we move on to some picks?
Before we do, any final thoughts on QA,
rainforest tips,
guidance that you want to leave us with,
AJ?
I think just recapping is
finding the balance between
confidence and velocity, right?
Everybody needs to set their
own bar for quality.
What is my ratio between
confidence and velocity?
Determining that for
yourself is the most
important thing here.
And keeping in mind that not
only is it velocity,
but a lot of times it's the
sanity of your engineers.
We don't want to spend all
of our time writing tests.
So finding that balance and
doing things in an
efficient way is the key to success.
Right on.
And I think that's very use
case specific too, you know,
because the right answer
for a financial app is
going to be very different
than the right answer for
like a social media app.
Absolutely.
Cool.
All right, Jillian, calling you out first.
What'd you bring for a pick today?
I am going to pick Drive by Dave Kellett.
It is a sci-fi graphic novel
and I think it's on its...
I think it's like releasing
the fourth one this summer,
but it's so good.
And it's so nice and wholesome,
which is very nice because like,
I really like sci-fi,
but I don't really like
violence or gore or, you know,
icky fluids or just,
I don't like any of that.
Okay.
I don't like any of it.
And this is just so
wholesome and adorable.
And the main character is very cute.
So that's it.
That's the pick.
got a whole bunch of copies
for christmas and I'm like
making people read them and
I'm gonna I'm gonna have
like a little little indie
graphic novel cult going on
soon enough great right on
all right warren what'd you
bring uh yeah so I just got back from
a long hiatus being away from the show.
I was on vacation.
And so I think this pick is
really accurate.
Very short book.
Highly recommend Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu,
which is the founder of Taoism,
spelled Taoism, in case
in case you've seen it
written but never pronounced before.
And there's just so much
good stuff that is in the
book that can be applied to everyday life,
working environment, et cetera.
It's incredibly short.
There's only like a hundred
and eight principles or so.
And it starts off great with
the Tao that can be told is
not the eternal Tao.
Like you can't write down the whole truth.
There's something that's never said.
It's impossible to convey everything.
And I know it sounds so
philosophical to go down this path,
but I feel like going
through these really helps
to put into perspective
thinking outside the box
with solving certain
problems or interactions or
the communication we have every day.
Highly recommend.
Right on.
Cool.
AJ, what you got for us?
Yeah,
my reading and listening choices are
kind of all over the map,
but I did have an
interesting one recently.
It was called The Light Eaters.
It's about plants and
specifically this idea of
plant intelligence.
So obviously intelligence is
a loaded word.
They're not intelligent like
you and I. They're not
debating QA strategies and
things like that,
but they do have a lot of
intelligent-like behavior.
They communicate.
They recognize their kin and
They hear sounds,
they transform themselves
based on the visual
appearance of the
environment around them.
And so I found it really
interesting and gave me a
lot to think about,
especially when I'm out in
nature with the wife and dog,
just kind of staring at trees and stuff.
um so yeah check it out no
plants are intelligent for
sure a hundred percent
totally with you there's a
there's a good one if you
are out and there's plants
or grass being cut and you
notice the smell of you
know freshly cut grass what
is that it's a fear um
intensely a fear pheromone
that's been sent off to
warn other grass that that
there is danger around like
that is the sign of intelligent life
Yeah, for sure.
There's lots of super
interesting examples in
this book and just like
plants acting like animals essentially.
And it's kind of a mind
blowing experience.
I read a book recently and I
can't remember which one it was,
but I've been studying
mushrooms a lot lately and this book,
showed where mushrooms
actually act as a
communication agent for
trees in the forest.
And so like a specific set
of insects can start
attacking trees on one end of the forest.
And then the mushroom,
because it's the mycelium
that grows underneath the
entire forest floor,
will relay that information
to the other trees in the forest.
And so by the time the
insects work their way down
to those trees,
that those trees are
producing a scent or a
pheromone that actually
repels the insects by the
time they get there.
And I thought that was super cool.
That is cool.
I'm in on like a mushroom
and foraging Facebook group.
And everybody just like
takes pictures of fun
mushrooms that they find
when they're out and about.
And it's just such a nice
little group because it's so chill.
That's it.
There's like, there's no drama.
There's no nothing.
It's just look at this mushroom I found.
There's an app called
iNaturalist that I use for that.
You can take a picture of
not just mushrooms,
but anything you find that
you can identify and then
upload it to iNaturalist.
And it will try to auto
detect what it is for you,
but then other people will
come in and confirm or tell
you what that actually is.
That was pretty cool.
I used to do that a lot as a kid.
I'd have like the field
guides and go out with my
field guide and try to like
identify all the plants.
But now we have an app for that.
There's an app for that.
Always.
Will, what's your pick?
My pick is there's a series
on Netflix called Kunk on Earth,
and I thought my sense of
humor was really, really dry,
but this lady takes it to a
whole new level.
This series is just
hilarious because she sits down.
It's like the history of Earth, basically,
but she'll sit down with
legitimate world renowned
experts in their field and
ask them the most off the
wall questions and that to
me the hot was the
highlight of the series is
just the looks on their
faces when she would ask
them these questions that
had absolutely nothing to
do with what they were an
expert in but super
entertaining series
definitely ten out of ten
stars kunk on earth on
netflix a hundred percent
and you know there's
actually two other things
there's kunk on um
uh britain I think and then
there's like one on
christmas and shakespeare
so you have some episodes
too oh sweet I will have to
check those out because I
love her sense of humor all
right I've never heard that
that's fun yeah it's very
very accurate all right
That brings us to the end of the episode.
Thank you everyone for listening.
Jillian, Warren,
thank you for joining me
hosting the show.
And AJ, thanks for coming on the show,
man.
It's been a pleasure talking to you.
Thanks so much for having me.
It was a lot of fun.
Right on.
Glad to hear that.
And I will see everyone next week.